JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
REX TILLERSON, U.S. Secretary of
State: Failing
to act now on the most pressing
security issue
in the world may bring
catastrophic consequences.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Secretary of
State Rex Tillerson
calls for new sanctions on North
Korea, after
President Trump warns of a
potential major,
major conflict with the Asian
nation.
Then: During his visit to Egypt,
Pope Francis
calls for an end to religious
violence.
It's Friday.
Mark Shields and David Brooks
analyze the
week's news and the president's
first 100
days in office.
And Jeffrey Brown visits a
workshop in Spain
that specializes in reproducing
exact replicas
of art.
ADAM LOWE, Factum Arte: The idea
is that you
can get someone to understand
the complexity
of an object, and you can get
them to read
it in many ways through
encountering facsimile.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: There's word
tonight that North
Korea has test-fired another
ballistic missile.
South Korea's military says it
happened early
Saturday, local time.
A U.S. government source told
Reuters that
initial indications suggest the
test was a
failure.
It comes as the U.S. warns that
the North's
nuclear and missile programs are
a growing
threat.
We will return to the North
Korea story right
after the news summary.
In the day's other news:
Congress has gone
home for the weekend, and the
federal government
will go on running for another
week.
The House and Senate today
approved a short-term
funding bill to prevent a
shutdown tonight
at midnight.
The voting took place after
leaders on both
sides lamented the need for the
stopgap measure.
REP.
RODNEY FRELINGHUYSEN (R), New
Jersey: The
continuing resolution is never
anyone's first
choice for funding the
government.
However, this is our best path
forward.
This C.R. is very short-term,
very limited
scope and will help us complete
our important
work.
SEN.
PATRICK LEAHY (D), Vermont: We
shouldn't be
in this situation.
We shouldn't have allowed
partisan politics
to once again turn a looming
deadline into
a political standoff with,
really, a manufactured
crisis.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Next week,
lawmakers aim to
finish a package to fund the
government through
September 30, the end of the
federal fiscal
year.
Two U.S. Army Rangers killed in
Afghanistan
this week may have been victims
of friendly
fire.
They were taking part in a raid
on Islamic
State forces in an eastern
province.
The Pentagon said today it is
not clear whether
they were fired on by Afghan
commandos or
other American troops.
The National Security Agency has
announced
a major shift in surveillance
policy.
It will no longer collect
e-mails or text
messages simply because they
mention a foreign
intelligence target.
Instead, only those sent to or
from a target
will be collected.
Privacy advocates had pushed for
the change.
President Trump vowed today to
defend gun
rights as he addressed the
National Rifle
Association in Atlanta.
His appearance at the group's
annual convention
was the first by a sitting
president since
Ronald Reagan, 34 years ago.
Mr. Trump painted a stark
contrast between
his priorities and those of the
Obama administration.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
The eight-year assault on your
Second Amendment
freedoms has come to a crashing
end.
You have a true friend and
champion in the
White House.
No longer will federal agencies
be coming
after law-abiding gun owners.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The NRA is now
pushing for
federal legislation to make any
state's concealed-carry
permit valid anywhere in the
country.
On another issue, the president
served notice
to South Korea today that he
wants to renegotiate
or terminate a free trade
agreement between
the two countries.
In an interview with Reuters, he
called the
five-year-old deal horrible and
unacceptable.
Arkansas has wrapped up an
accelerated execution
schedule with its fourth lethal
injection
this month.
Kenneth Williams was put to
death last night
for a murder in 1999.
A witness said that Williams
convulsed as
he was administered the first
drug, a sedative.
The governor said that
involuntary motions
are a widely-known side effect.
Former President George H.W.
Bush is back
home tonight from a Houston
hospital.
He was released after two weeks
of treatment
for pneumonia and then
bronchitis.
The 41st president is 92 years
old.
And on Wall Street, stocks edged
lower after
first-quarter growth in the U.S.
turned out
to be the weakest in three
years.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 40 points
to close at 20940.
The Nasdaq fell one point, and
the S&P 500
slipped four.
For the week, all three indexes
rose 1.5 percent
to 2 percent.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the secretary
of state calls for a global
crackdown on North
Korea; the pope visits Egypt,
reaching out
to both Christians and Muslims;
laughter in
the Supreme Court; and much
more.
The news that North Korea has
carried out
another missile test is sure to
add to rising
tensions with the U.S. Observers
also say
that the country appears to be
preparing to
conduct a nuclear test as well.
Meanwhile, for the past two
months, the U.S.
and South Koreans have been
conducting another
large-scale military exercise.
The United Nations took up the
issue today.
REX TILLERSON, U.S. Secretary of
State: For
too long the international
community has been
reactive in addressing North
Korea.
Those days must come to an end.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The warning from
Secretary
of State Rex Tillerson came at
the U.N. Security
Council.
He said it is time for painful
new sanctions
to make North Korea give up its
nuclear and
missile programs.
REX TILLERSON: Failing to act
now on the most
pressing security issue in the
world may bring
catastrophic consequences.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump
has pressed
China to help rein in the North,
tweeting
just last week, "If they want to
solve the
North Korean problem, they
will."
And Tillerson said yesterday
that China may
impose its own sanctions.
Beijing wouldn't confirm that
today.
Instead, Foreign Minister Wang
Yi urged a
return to multination peace
talks.
WANG YI, Chinese Foreign
Minister (through
translator) (through
translator): China is
not a focal point of the problem
on the peninsula.
And the key to solving the
nuclear issue there
doesn't lie in the hands of
China.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tillerson had
said in an interview
yesterday that the U.S. would be
open to direct
talks with North Korea, a shift
in American
policy.
Today, he clarified the
conditions necessary
for that to take place.
REX TILLERSON: North Korea must
understand
North Korea must take concrete
steps to reduce
the threat that its illegal
weapons programs
pose to the United States and
our allies before
we can even consider talks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Earlier this
week, President
Trump's top advisers said the
administration's
first course is diplomacy.
And in a Reuters interview the
president said
he'd love to solve things
diplomatically.
But he also said it's very
difficult, and
added his own warning that:
DONALD TRUMP: There is a chance
that we could
end up having a major, major
conflict with
North Korea.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The U.S. has
already sent an
aircraft carrier group to the
Korean Peninsula
as a show of force against the
North and its
leader.
And the Pentagon said today that
a U.S. missile
defense system, known as THAAD,
that it recently
sent to South Korea will be
operational soon.
China, in turn, said it still
objects.
WANG YI (through translator): I
want to reiterate
China's firm opposition against
U.S. deployment
of a THAAD anti-missile system
in the Republic
of Korea.
It is a move that seriously
undermines the
strategic security of China and
other countries
in the region.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump
also suggested
in his interview that South
Korea should pay
for the system, an estimated $1
billion.
South Korean officials
responded, saying,
the United States will bear the
cost.
For more on all of this, we get
two views.
John Merrill had a 27-year
career at the State
Department, where, from 2001 to
2014, he was
the chief of the Northeast Asia
Division of
the Bureau of Intelligence and
Research.
He's now a visiting fellow at
Johns Hopkins
University.
And Balbina Hwang served in the
State Department
during the George W. Bush
administration.
She is now a visiting professor
at Georgetown
University.
And we welcome both of you to
the program.
We were planning to have this
discussion before
we learned just within the hour,
Balbina Hwang,
about this latest missile test.
But widen it out for us.
What is the state of U.S.-North
Korean relations
right now?
What track are we on?
®MD-BO-BALBINA HWANG, Senior
Policy Analyst,
Heritage Foundation: I actually
don't think
it's nearly as tense as
everybody is making
it out to be.
And I understand why President
Trump is saying
that there is a potential for a
major, major
conflict.
But we have to remember there's
always been
that potential since 1953, when
the Korean
War ended essentially in
armistice.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, are we
overplaying this,
John Merrill?
JOHN MERRILL, Johns Hopkins
University: There
might be an element of that, of
Mao-Maoing
(ph), if you could call it that.
But I think he's trying to
Chinese more energized
and he's trying to convey a
sense of imminent
possible threat to the North
Koreans that
there is a military option if
all else fails.
So, it's brinkmanship on all
sides.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is that a wise
course to be
pursuing right now?
BALBINA HWANG: Well, again, I
think it's understandable
why.
And I agree with John certainly
that it's
partially brinkmanship and about
signaling.
What I worry about right now is
not conflict
with North Korea.
I actually think that there is
going to be
trouble with South Korea.
And I think we have to focus on
this.
And really the solution has got
to include
and has to have the leadership
and input of
South Koreas on the resolution
of the North
Korean nuclear issue.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How is the
relationship with
the South more of a worry, a
threat?
BALBINA HWANG: Well, because I
think part
of this brinkmanship is exactly
as John said.
It is indeed to try to
essentially make the
North Koreans understand that
the U.S. is
very serious this time, as we
have been for
20 years.
It's also to get China to
listen.
But China -- and I think, John,
China's reaction
to the deployment of THAAD in
South Korea
is indicative of this.
And so I think South Korea is
stuck in the
middle.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And given that,
with South
Korea stuck in the middle, John
Merrill, how
does the U.S. -- how do you see
the U.S. maneuvering
from here, from this point
forward?
Because the North has been
making provocative
statements.
The Trump administration has
been making provocative
statements.
JOHN MERRILL: I think people
should try to
cool the situation to the extent
possible.
There's going to be a new
government in Seoul
think on the 9th of next month.
JUDY WOODRUFF: They have an
election coming
up.
JOHN MERRILL: Yes.
And the president will be
installed immediately.
I think it's a little unseemly
to rush a THAAD
battery in, in the dead of
night.
JUDY WOODRUFF: This is the
missile defense
system.
(CROSSTALK)
JOHN MERRILL: Yes.
Yes.
And there's serious questions
about whether
the thing works.
And certainly the new government
would like
to probably have a chance to
review the system
before it commits to it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What about that?
BALBINA HWANG: I'm far less
concerned about
-- I don't think it's
surreptitious.
I think these plans were already
in place.
What concerns me is that, on the
one hand,
we're trying to send the message
to China
and to North Korea that we're
serious.
On the other hand, at the same
time this is
all happening, and Secretary
Tillerson and
President Trump are emphasizing
the strength
of the alliance as the last
defense against
a major conflict with North
Korea, then, unfortunately,
President Trump also announces
that South
Korea should be responsible for
paying up
to $1 billion for it.
So, I think that's what sends
the mixed signals,
and that's what worries me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me turn you,
John Merrill,
to what we have heard from
Secretary Tillerson.
He said in the interview, an
interview yesterday
with NPR, it appeared that he
was saying that
the U.S., this administration is
open to direct
talks with North Korea.
But then he went on to say that
the North
would have to have the right
policy, so to
speak.
Today, he hardened that.
It sounded like he was saying
there had to
be preconditions in place.
How important is that discussion
about whether
there will or won't be direct
talks with the
U.S.?
JOHN MERRILL: I think, if there
are direct
talks, it's huge.
It's a major development.
Before this, we have always said
that we're
only going to talk to them in
the context
of the six-party talks process.
So, if that's really by the
boards, if we're
prepared for direct
negotiations, that's great.
I liked what he said yesterday
better than
what he said today.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Why?
JOHN MERRILL: For the reasons
that you mentioned.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Because he said
-- it sounded
more clear that he was open to
direct...
JOHN MERRILL: Yes, exactly.
JUDY WOODRUFF: To direct talks.
What about this?
BALBINA HWANG: I think this
whole debate about
engagement, not engagement, is
it right or
wrong, do we need preconditions
or no preconditions,
I think is a little bit of a red
herring.
I think what's actually very
critical is this.
All the U.S. presidents have at
some point
understood that they will try to
negotiate
with North Korea.
First, negotiations take more
than one party.
Just as it takes two to tango,
it takes two
to negotiate.
And North Korea very
specifically denied every
overture by President Obama for
eight years
to enter into any kind of talks,
number one.
Number two, the six-party talks
were actually
very critical.
And Ambassador Christopher Hill,
as you know,
who led the talks, his point was
that it established
that multilateral negotiations
are the key,
and that every regional player
has to be involved,
and most importantly South
Korea.
And I think now what's happening
is, this
idea of direct talks basically
precludes the
role of South Korea.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, John Merrill,
are we talking
about a solution here that could
lead to the
North eventually getting rid of
their nuclear
weapons, which is what the
administration
says is their goal?
JOHN MERRILL: That is going a
very difficult
hill to claim.
For the moment, I think the most
we can hope
for is perhaps a freeze on
testing, a freeze
on deployment of new systems.
I would just remind Balbina that
the United
States is responsible for this
whole issue.
At one time, we had 700 or so
tactical nuclear
weapons in South Korea down at
Kunsan and
up along the DMZ.
So, the chickens kind of are
coming home to
roost now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it's
certainly gotten
all of our attention.
JOHN MERRILL: That's for sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We thank both of
you coming
in.
And I know we're going to be to
continuing
to report on it, and you're
going to continue
to watch it.
John Merrill, Balbina Hwang,
thank you.
BALBINA HWANG: Thank you.
JOHN MERRILL: Thank you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It is the first
papal trip
to Egypt since Pope John Paul II
in 2000.
Pope Francis' visit to Cairo
today comes at
a time when Egypt's Christians
are under attack,
and the so-called Islamic State
is emboldened.
Hari Sreenivasan has our story.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Pope Francis
received a
red carpet welcome, but security
was on high
alert across the Egyptian
capital.
Still, he insisted on driving to
the presidential
palace in a simple unarmored
blue Fiat.
WOMAN: He is trying to prove to
the world
that Egypt is still safe, no
matter what terrorism
is trying to do in our country.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Just three
weeks ago, 45
people died when the Islamic
State bombed
Christian churches in two
Egyptian cities
on Palm Sunday.
And, in December, an ISIS
suicide bomber killed
25 people at Cairo's main Coptic
Christian
cathedral.
In a video message before his
arrival, Francis
called for unity and tolerance.
POPE FRANCIS, Leader of Catholic
Church (through
translator): I hope that this
visit will be
an embrace of consolation and of
encouragement
to all Christians in the Middle
East, a message
of fraternity and reconciliation
to all children
of Abraham, particularly in the
Islamic world.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The pontiff's
first stop
was a meeting with Egyptian
President Abdel
Fattah El-Sisi.
The former general came to power
after a 2013
coup that ousted Mohammed Morsi
and banned
the Muslim Brotherhood.
Francis also took part in a
peace conference
to bring Muslims and Christians
together.
POPE FRANCIS (through
translator): To counter
effectively the barbarity of
those who foment
hatred and violence, we need to
accompany
young people, respond to the
incendiary logic
of evil by patiently working for
the growth
of goodness.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The day
concluded with a
meeting with the leader of
Egypt's Coptic
Christians.
For more on what these leaders
hope to achieve
together, I'm joined by Tarek
Masoud, a professor
at Harvard's Kennedy School of
Government.
Now, Mr. Masoud, let's start
with this recent
violence that we have been
seeing against
Coptic Christians.
Is this something new or is this
something
that Christians in Egypt have
had to deal
with forever?
TAREK MASOUD, Assistant
Professor of Public
Policy, Harvard University: Hi,
Hari.
I think it's the latter.
It's something that has really
plagued the
Christian community in Egypt for
a very long
time.
Under Hosni Mubarak, the
president who was
overthrown in 2011, there had
been violence
against Christians.
When the military took over in
Egypt in 2011,
there was violence against
Christians.
When the Muslim Brotherhood was
in charge
for a brief moment in Egypt,
there was violence
against Christians.
And that violence against
Christians in Egypt
continues today under the
government of Abdel
Fattah El-Sisi.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Just to put it
in a little
context, what's the standing of
Christians
in society, or how much does it
matter?
TAREK MASOUD: Oh, it matters a
great deal.
You know, Hari, the word for --
most Egyptian
Christians are called Coptic
Christians.
And the word Copt has the same
etymological
root as the word Egypt.
In fact, Copt -- the Coptic
Church is the
world's oldest Christian church.
And the Coptic Christians are
indigenous to
Egypt.
I'm a Muslim, but I'm clearly
descended from
people who converted from
Christianity around
the 11th century.
So Christians are really an
inextricable part
of the fabric of Egyptian life.
The problem is, particularly
since the 1970s,
that society has become
increasingly Islamized,
that Christians have been seen
as the other,
and there have been a lot of
attempts to delegitimize
them, discriminate against them.
And now we're seeing acts of
violence against
them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, what's the
strategic
value for ISIS to carry out
these acts of
violence against this small
minority?
TAREK MASOUD: Well, so
Christians in Egypt
are between 5 and 15 percent of
the Egyptian
population.
So, the fact that we don't know
how much of
the population they are is in
itself a problem.
But what ISIS wants to do by
attacking Christians
and Christian churches is two
things.
First, they want to delegitimize
the Egyptian
regime.
After all, President Sisi came
to power promising
stability.
And so these kinds of
spectacular acts of
violence merely underscore his
inability to
provide that stability.
The other thing they want to do
is, they want
to paint the government as
somehow not just
non-Islamic, but anti-Islamic.
So, when they attack Christians,
and the government,
as it should, does things to
defend the Christian
community, such as putting armed
guards around
churches or the president making
statements
about how the government -- the
people should
-- there should be no
discrimination against
Copts and no violence against
Copts, it makes
it possible for Islamic radicals
to point
to the government and say to
Egyptians, look
at these guys, they're on the
side of Christians,
they care more about Christians
than they
do about the average Muslim
Egyptian.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, is it part
of a larger
strategy for ISIS then in the
region?
TAREK MASOUD: It may be.
Clearly, everywhere that ISIS
operates, they
try to polarize societies,
foment sectarian
and religious dissension.
The other thing to note, though,
again that
the problem of violence and
discrimination
with Copts in Egypt far predates
ISIS and
far predates the government of
President Sisi.
And it's not just a reflection
of ISIS strategy.
It's a reflection of deep
dysfunctions in
Egyptian society.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Finally, I
want to ask about
this image that is circulating
today.
It is of the pope embracing an
imam there
in Egypt.
It almost seems like there's a
marketing challenge.
Will an image like that travel
as far and
as fast as some of these ISIS
videos make
it throughout the Muslim world?
TAREK MASOUD: One really hopes
so.
One thing that's really been
remarkable about
Pope Francis is that he really
isn't just
the pope of the world's
Catholics.
He really seems to be the pope
of all peoples,
and particularly the world's
downtrodden and
disadvantaged.
And I think one thing that's
worth noting
is that, in his statement, the
pope called
on the Egyptian government to do
more to respect
human rights.
And he wasn't just talking about
the human
rights of Egypt's Christians,
but he was talking
about the human rights of all
Egyptians.
So, one hopes that those kinds
of messages
will diffuse throughout the
Muslim world.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Tarek Masoud
from Harvard's Kennedy School of
Government,
thanks so much.
TAREK MASOUD: Thank you, Hari.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
Mark Shields
and David Brooks analyze the
first 100 days
of the Trump administration;
preserving culture
and history using exact
replicas; self-made
myth -- a millionaire reflects
on the help
he got that goes unacknowledged.
But first: The U.S. Supreme
Court's final
case this term was expected to
be a highly
technical argument on
immigration law, but
it wound up pulling back the
curtain a little
on the justices' personalities,
and how they
interact with each other.
John Yang has the details of
listening in
on court arguments.
JOHN YANG: Here to walk us
through some of
the key moments during
Wednesday's oral arguments
is Robert Barnes.
He has covered the Supreme Court
for The Washington
Post for more than a decade.
And he also had the misfortune
of being my
editor at The Post.
(LAUGHTER)
JOHN YANG: But, Bob, thanks for
coming in.
ROBERT BARNES, The Washington
Post: It's good
to be here.
JOHN YANG: In a nutshell, Bob,
what was this
case about?
ROBERT BARNES: Well, this is a
case about
a woman from Bosnia who claimed
persecution,
was admitted to this country,
became a naturalized
citizen.
And then it turned out she had
lied on some
of her applications.
Specifically, she had said that
her husband
was trying to avoid military
service.
It turned out he had been in a
Bosnian militia
unit that had been charged with
some war crimes.
JOHN YANG: And the woman's
attorney went first,
since she's the petitioner in
this case.
How did that argument go?
ROBERT BARNES: The real fact
here was, does
it matter if something you lie
about on your
application is material to the
fact that you
got citizenship?
And the law is not specific
about that.
It doesn't say that it has to be
relevant.
It says that you can't lie.
And so the government had taken
the position
that any lie would be reason for
it to move
against someone to take away
their citizenship
if they want.
And the lower courts agreed,
said that, no,
the federal government doesn't
have to prove
that it was relevant to her
getting it, just
that she had lied.
And so the question for the
court was, is
that the right thing or not?
Is that the right standard?
JOHN YANG: And then, as you
wrote in The Washington
Post, things got really
interesting when they
turned to the government's
attorney, Robert
Parker.
Chief Justice John Roberts made
a personal
confession.
JOHN ROBERTS, Chief Justice of
the U.S. Supreme
Court: Some time ago, outside
the statute
of limitations, I drove 60 miles
an hour in
a 55-mile-an-hour zone.
(LAUGHTER)
ROBERT PARKER, Justice
Department Attorney:
I'm sorry to hear that.
JOHN ROBERTS: I wasn't arrested.
Now, you say if that I answer
that question
no, 20 years after I was
naturalized as a
citizen, you can knock on my
door and say,
guess what, you're not an
American citizen
after all.
ROBERT BARNES: Well, the chief
justice wasn't
comparing speeding to a war
crime, but what
he was saying is, what's the
logical extension
of this?
If the government says that
someone can lose
their citizenship for lying
about anything,
then how far does that go?
Does it go to even something as
mundane as
speeding which you didn't fess
up?
JOHN YANG: And he had not said
anything in
the arguments with the woman's
attorney; is
that right?
ROBERT BARNES: That's right.
Sometimes, when the chief
justice is quiet
during one part of the argument,
if you're
the lawyer getting up, you need
to be worried,
because it means that he may
agree with that
side and he's ready to pounce on
you.
And that's pretty much what the
chief justice
did to this poor government
lawyer.
JOHN YANG: And then on that
point of what's
relevant and what's not
relevant, there was
an exchange involving Justice
Elena Kagan.
So, let's take a listen to that.
ROBERT PARKER: I mean, you could
lie about
your weight, let's say.
You're embarrassed that you
weigh 170 pounds,
and so you claim that you weigh
150.
And, remember, this has to be a
lie under
oath after you have sworn to
tell the truth,
and you're deliberately lying
about something.
It calls into question the
veracity of your
other answers.
And that is very important in
the naturalization
process.
(CROSSTALK)
ROBERT PARKER: I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
ELENA KAGAN, Associate Justice,
U.S. Supreme
Court: You will be glad to know
I don't have
another of these questions for
you.
(LAUGHTER)
ELENA KAGAN: Although I am a
little bit horrified
to know that every time I lie
about my weight,
it has those kinds of
consequences.
(LAUGHTER)
ROBERT PARKER: Only under oath.
ELENA KAGAN: Yes.
JOHN YANG: We should point out
that Parker
wasn't referring specifically to
Justice Kagan.
(CROSSTALK)
ROBERT BARNES: That's right,
exactly right.
No, again, it was the same
point.
And what justices like to do is,
they keep
spinning these ideas out.
What about this, what about
this, what about
this?
And if it's the lawyer in a
position where
they have got to defend
something -- you know,
we should point out too, this is
a long-held
government view.
It's not one that has come up
just recently,
but one that has come up a long
time ago.
It's just that this case got to
the court
now.
JOHN YANG: And then, later in
the arguments,
Justice Anthony Kennedy pressed
Parker about
the meaning of citizenship.
ROBERT PARKER: All I can say is,
I don't think
that the statute says anything
that would
necessarily prevent
denaturalization from
occurring.
But there are a number of...
ANTHONY KENNEDY, Associate
Justice, U.S. Supreme
Court: It seems to me that your
argument is
demeaning the priceless value of
citizenship.
To say, oh, he would just be
restored to his
-- or she to her former status,
that's not
what our cases say.
That's not what citizenship
means.
You're arguing for the
government of the United
States, talking about what
citizenship is
and ought to mean.
JOHN YANG: Now you say that
that's a very
characteristic question from
Justice Kennedy.
ROBERT BARNES: Yes.
It's bad for your side if
Justice Kennedy
starts talking about something
that the government
does as being demeaning or
affecting the dignity
of an individual, because that's
something
that's very important to him.
And those are words that no
lawyer really
wants to hear coming from
Justice Kennedy.
JOHN YANG: Very unusual tone, it
seemed, in
this argument.
How usual or unusual is that?
ROBERT BARNES: This was a very
lively back
and forth among the justices.
It was a very sort of
entertaining argument
to be at.
It was also their last argument
of the term.
After this, the justices start
writing their
opinions in all the cases they
have heard
since October.
And so, in a way, it was sort of
the end of
the school day for them.
And so it was a very interesting
and lively
conversation.
JOHN YANG: Bob Barnes, thanks
for taking us
behind the scenes a little bit
at the Supreme
Court.
ROBERT BARNES: My pleasure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to the
analysis of Shields
and Brooks.
That's syndicated columnist Mark
Shields,
and New York Times columnist
David Brooks.
Welcome, gentlemen.
So, we're just one day away,
David, from the
100-day mark of the new
administration.
What are we thinking right now?
DAVID BROOKS: A hundred days is
a stupid marker
-- 99 days, much better.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: No, it's not a
success.
But I think what's striking, he
has had the
obvious failures, the health
care and all
the rest.
And I think what's striking and
makes me remain
curious about the next four
years is the change.
I mean, it's just rapid change.
We have never seen a president
change this
much from being a populist to
being a corporatist,
from being the Bannon dark
knight to shifting
to putting pretty straight, at
least people
who are -- putting a process
around him.
And so I would say there's been
some improvements.
He's never going to be a deep
thinker.
He's never going to have an
overall strategy,
but the level of flexibility is
to me actually
one of the more striking and
maybe hopeful
that he can learn from failure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Some improvement,
Mark.
MARK SHIELDS: Judy, there's an
old formula
in Washington.
When someone changes and moves
in your direction,
politically or philosophically,
that person
has grown.
And when he moves in the other
direction,
of course, he's Benedict Arnold.
He's a Judas Iscariot.
He's a traitor.
Donald Trump has one loyal
constituency.
And to listen to David -- and I
think his
point is right -- he has
changed.
He's turned his back on that
constituency.
Three out of four Americans
approve of one
thing Donald Trump has done.
And that is forcing companies to
keep jobs
in the United States.
That was the populist theme.
That was something that no other
president
has won the White House on.
And he, under the pressure of
the 100-day
deadline, which he kept
disdaining and then
genuflecting before and
feverishly pursuing,
Donald Trump came up with a
one-page tax plan
that turned his back totally on
the people
who elected him.
And his secretary of the
treasury could not
even tell you what a family
making $70,000
a year with four -- two
children, whether
they would pay more or less in
taxes.
But he could tell you one thing,
that Donald
Trump's Cabinet would pay and
Donald Trump
in that plan would may
measurably less.
It was a plan designed for the
deserving rich.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you're saying
they did
put out a plan, a one-page plan.
MARK SHIELDS: That's right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But it doesn't
tell us much
more, David, about what they
really will do.
DAVID BROOKS: Well, two things.
First, which way is he moving?
He's not moving toward people
like me.
I'm not part of the corporate
elite.
MARK SHIELDS: No, I know that.
DAVID BROOKS: I am flattered by
the reference.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: He's now moving
from a version
of populism to a version of
corporatism.
And if there was a good version
of populism,
where he would really help the
people who
voted for him, that would be
great.
That wasn't something he was
going to be capable
of doing.
He had an ethnic populism can
which as most
an ugly version of populism.
And, second, by the way, there's
no constituency
for populism of the good sort in
the United
States Congress.
So, that was never going to
happen.
So he has moved toward something
which does
help his friends in big
business.
There's no question about that.
I happen to think that's a less
dangerous
mode of change.
It's more conventional anyway
than being a
populist.
If he tried to being an American
Le Pen, an
American Putin, that was the
truly dangerous
thing.
And that part, he's rejected.
So, I think at least we have
avoided a really
ugly version of the White House,
at least
right now.
The second thing about the tax
plan, he's
never going to be deep.
He's never going to be
substantive.
He wants things, the tax plan
right away.
The Treasury Department has no
time to actually
put anything together.
So, they gave him a page which
they think
will please him, which is right.
It wasn't a tax plan.
It was just 100 words off the
top of their
head.
And that's why I thing he will
little mark
with this tax plan.
That thing is sure to fail, at
least in its
present form.
And so he just floats across the
surface without
really causing any change, just
a lot of ruffling.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Whatever it is,
Mark, I mean,
David's point is that it's
better than what
it sounded like it was going to
be during
the campaign.
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I don't
know.
He did -- he turned his back on
the people
who elected him.
What Donald Trump did that no
Republican had
done since Ronald Reagan was to
break through
among blue-collar white voters,
working-class
voters in this country, who
Democrats had
kind of assumed were part of
their constituency,
had taken for granted, and who
had paid the
price of globalization, whose
own fortunes
had suffered, the shrinking of
the middle
class, established once again
this week by
Pew in its research in this
country.
And Donald Trump said, I
recognize you, I'm
with you.
And whatever else has happened,
I mean, the
virtue of Donald Trump as a
candidate was,
he says what he means.
And it turns out, he didn't mean
what he said.
And, Judy, you cannot talk about
Donald Trump
without talking about the
Republicans.
And the tax thing is one thing,
because that's
just a piece of paper.
But the health care thing is
failure, a total
philosophical, political and
courageous failure
of a political party, as well as
the president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Because they
talked about it
for so long.
MARK SHIELDS: They won four
elections.
They won four elections in a row
for the Congress
on it, Judy.
And let's just get one thing
straight, one
thing straight.
The Democrats passed a bill in
2010.
And they had 179 witnesses
appear before Congress.
They had 78 separate hearings in
Congress.
They have had 230 amendments
they considered.
They passed -- they accepted 121
of them.
It was a two-year ordeal.
And these people have invested
nothing.
They can't even come up with a
repeal bill.
It is just -- now all they're
trying to pass
in the House is what -- the
legislative equivalent
of a dead fish.
They just want to get it out of
them across
to the Senate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is that on the
president, David,
or is that on the Republicans in
the Congress?
DAVID BROOKS: It's on both.
The president came in with no
plan, with no
strategy, with no people.
So, he is just a guy with words
and tweets.
It's a bit on the Congress, but
it's also
just a bit on the party.
There is no plan that could pass
with all
the Republican votes, because
every time you
get the Freedom Caucus, you lose
the moderates.
That's just the iron rule.
And so if you wanted to do the
kind of government
I think Mark and I would
probably find some
favor with, he would have come
in, Trump would
have said, I'm going to help my
people.
And I'm going to do first a big
infrastructure
spending bill, then maybe a
payroll tax cut,
and then moving things, some
education things,
just everything at that group.
But to get something like that
passed would
have required breaking down the
polarization
of our politics, and getting
some Democrats
and some Republicans.
And that would have been great.
But it would have required such
legislative
skill and experience that was
completely beyond
the capacities of this White
House.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What about just
the style of
this president, Mark, the fact
that he made
just an offhand statement this
week, tweeted,
we're going to do away with
NAFTA, I'm going
to terminate it?
And then, within 24 hours, he
was saying,
well, I heard from the
presidents of Mexico
and Canada -- the prime minister
of Canada
-- and I'm going to negotiate
it.
And then we have been talking
tonight about
North Korea, the tough language,
the tough
rhetoric back and forth about
whether we're
going to be tough.
Has this proven effective?
How do you see it?
MARK SHIELDS: Picky, picky,
picky.
You just want to find fault.
No, of course it hasn't, Judy.
It's been a failure.
I mean, he had no honeymoon.
This was a shorter honeymoon
than Liza Minnelli's.
This thing was over in 24 hours.
And he ended it.
He now -- think about this, how
inept this
president has been.
His popular act a was
proportional, in most
people's judgment, response to
the outrage
and international offense of the
Syrian government,
poison gas on its own people,
all right?
And a plurality of Americans, in
spite of
the economic news you presented
earlier this
evening, see the economy getting
better.
And with those things going for
him, his own
favorable rating fell in the
polls.
I mean, so, no, I mean, there's
total -- there's
dissatisfaction with him.
He's going to be Typhoid Mary
politically
heading into 2018 on this chaos.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, David,
you're saying that
he's learned something, that
he's grown in
office.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, are we
talking about the
same....
DAVID BROOKS: Listen, his 100
days are not
a success.
This is not FDR we're talking
about here.
It's a failure.
But I'm looking for
opportunities for growth.
It's like when you have a
student who gets
an F, you go, oh, you got a
D-minus.
That's so much better.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: So, I'm looking on
the bright
side.
And if you go from dangerous to
fickle, I
think that's a good move.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: And so -- and then
the final
thing I will say, I'm really
struck by Bob
Costa.
Our colleague from "Washington
Week did a
great -- with Ashley Parker, a
great piece
on his television watching
habits.
And he had this interview with
AP where he
talked about how hard it was to
rip himself
away from the habit of watching
every single
TV show about himself.
And so you see a guy sort of
transparently
and naively struggling certainly
with maybe
narcissism, but certainly the TV
obsession.
And the lack of attention span
is what causes
all this fickleness.
Whoever saw him last gets the
policy for the
day.
And will that settle down, or
will we just
sort of get a weather vane for
the next four
years?
I don't know.
But I do think that the first 30
days was
unsustainable.
He was crashing every hour.
And that's calmed down a little.
MARK SHIELDS: I stand in awe of
David's optimism.
I do.
I really do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Fickle better
than dangerous.
MARK SHIELDS: And, no, I
appreciate it.
But, Judy, two things have
occurred under
Donald Trump, and Donald Trump
deserves credit
for.
For the first time since it
passed in 2010,
the Affordable Care Act,
Obamacare, is now
more popular than it's ever been
before, a
majority of Americans.
It's more popular than Donald
Trump, if you
want to do it just on a
comparative.
And the other thing is that
Americans who
had been on a Tea Party tear for
smaller government
now government, according to a
Wall Street
Journal/NBC poll, to do more.
They want it more -- to do more
in their lives
and to be more active.
So, this just goes completely
antithetical
to the Republican ideology of a
smaller, leaner,
cheaper government withdrawing.
And so, no, I think there's
great change in
the air.
I don't know where it comes
down, but it's
hard for me to see that there's
any hand on
the rudder of the ship of state.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But his
supporters -- and we
keep saying this in the polls,
and the reporters
who are going around the country
talking to
people who voted for Donald
Trump, David.
They still like what he's doing.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
No, they do.
People are solid.
People are mostly driven by
partisanship.
The prism through which they see
reality is
their partisan identity.
And so that will take some time
to shake off.
I do think it can be shaken off.
It seems very, very likely to me
this tax
reform is not going to go
anywhere, at least
anything like its current form.
And so how does he react to
that?
At what point does the economy
take a dip
and maybe people say, hey, what
exactly are
you doing for me now?
But I do think that will be a
while.
Partisan identity right now is
so strong that
if you ask people how is the
economy doing,
it doesn't matter how the
economy is doing.
It happens -- it's whether their
guy is in
power is how they see it.
So, that loyalty will stay there
for a little
while.
MARK SHIELDS: Just one thing,
Judy.
And before Democrats start
popping the champagne,
67 percent of Americans feel
Democrats, the
Democratic Party, is out of
touch with what's
going on in their lives, more
than -- a lot
more than they feel that about
Donald Trump.
So, if anything, yes, 96 to 98
percent of
the people who voted for him are
with him
and would do so again.
But, I mean, the Democrats have
to be a lot
more than just, we're not Trump.
That is not the answer to their
problems.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's not yet the
makings of
a comeback.
MARK SHIELDS: No.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark Shields,
David Brooks,
we hope both of you come back.
Thank you.
MARK SHIELDS: Oh, wow.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Every day,
priceless cultural
objects around the world are
threatened by
war, looting, the impact of
humans and the
passage of time.
But one organization in Spain is
taking an
innovative approach to
understanding and preserving
that heritage, by copying it.
Jeffrey Brown has that story.
It's part of our ongoing series
Culture at
Risk.
JEFFREY BROWN: The tomb of Seti
I, ancient
Egyptian pharaoh, we watched it
being milled,
printed, and set.
But we're not in Egypt's Valley
of the Kings,
and certainly not in the 13th
century B.C.
This is a workshop called Factum
Arte in an
eastern suburb of Madrid, Spain,
filled with
art and historical works of all
kinds, with
one unusual thing in common.
Everything in this large
warehouse is a reproduction,
a copy.
But the work that goes on here
raises profound
questions about just what is
real, and what
it means to preserve an object.
ADAM LOWE, Factum Arte: We're
making copies
of copies.
JEFFREY BROWN: The man who leads
Factum, with
evangelical fervor, is British
artist Adam
Lowe.
ADAM LOWE: The state of the art
is that we
can make something that is
identical to the
original, under normal viewing
conditions.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, is the idea
that you're
creating something that is, at
least for the
viewing experience, as real as
the original?
ADAM LOWE: The idea is that you
can get someone
to understand the complexity of
an object,
and you can get them to read it
in many ways
through encountering facsimile,
yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Facsimile, an
exact copy or
reproduction.
Factum calls its work digital
mediation, and
it operates as a kind of
renaissance workshop
of people with different skills:
software
designers, technicians,
conservators, architects,
artists, artisans.
Together, they make copies with
a cause, not
to mislead, but to understand
and help preserve.
One prominent example, this copy
of a winged
lion from Nimrud.
It was cast from sculptures now
in European
museums that were taken from the
site in Iraq
in the 19 century.
Last year, ISIS destroyed much
of what's left
at Nimrud itself.
ADAM LOWE: So, in that strange
twist of fate,
everything that was removed in
the 19th century
is the only evidence that's
left.
And we would love to be able to
send facsimiles,
like this, back to Nimrud to
take up their
place again on the site, so that
you still
keep that connection between...
JEFFREY BROWN: I mean, that
wouldn't make
up for the destruction, right?
ADAM LOWE: Nothing makes up for
destruction.
JEFFREY BROWN: Factum first
attracted international
attention in 2007 by creating a
replica of
a huge painting by Paolo
Veronese from 1563,
The Wedding at Cana.
The original painting now hangs
in the Louvre
museum in Paris, but it got
there as a gift
of Napoleon, whose forces ripped
it from its
original home, a church in
Venice.
Factum's experts studied,
scanned, slowly
recreated it, and finally put
it, the copy,
that is, into its old home.
ADAM LOWE: Many people started
to question
about whether the experience of
seeing it
in its correct setting, with the
correct light,
in dialogue with this building
that it was
painted for, is actually more
authentic than
the experience of seeing the
original in the
Louvre.
JEFFREY BROWN: Lowe had another
major win
in his recreation of King Tut's
tomb in the
Valley of the Kings, built next
to the original
site.
ADAM LOWE: It's a test between
one scanning
system.
JEFFREY BROWN: In Madrid, we got
a tour of
some key parts of the process,
which begins
far away from this building,
with the scanning
of the actual objects in the
field.
That team is led by architect
Carlos Bayod,
using a laser scanner developed
at Factum
known as the Lucida.
®MD-BO-CARLOS BAYOD, Factum
Arte: We are
capable now of recording the
surface of a
painting, for example, and
obtaining data
that are very close, that has
very close correspondence
to reality.
JEFFREY BROWN: How close?
®MD-BO-CARLOS BAYOD: Well, in
terms of resolution,
we are talking about 100
microns, so one point
of information every 10th of a
millimeter.
JEFFREY BROWN: The data about
the surface,
even of something we think of as
being flat,
is used to create a detailed
relief map of
the object, without ever
touching and potentially
harming it, to understand how
any intervention
or restoration might play out.
®MD-BO-CARLOS BAYOD: We believe
this information
should be very useful for
conservators, people
who have the duty of taking care
of the works
of art.
JEFFREY BROWN: To go further and
build a facsimile
of the work, in this case the
tomb of Seti
I, the data is crunched and fed
into milling
machines, computer numeric code
routers, or
3-D printers to create the
relief.
In another room, using a
Factum-built printer
run by Rafa Rachewsky, the
photographed image
is etched onto a custom-created
surface known
as a skin.
RAFA RACHEWSKY, Factum Arte: And
it's very
thin, as you can see.
It stretches enough so you can
lay it onto
the relief, and then you can
place exactly
where you want.
JEFFREY BROWN: Rachewsky
carefully aligns
the printed skin with the
relief, and using
contact glue:
RAFA RACHEWSKY: You want to be
sure that you
get everywhere.
JEFFREY BROWN: Because you want
it to hold
for several thousand years,
right?
(LAUGHTER)
RAFA RACHEWSKY: Exactly.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's then
vacuum-sealed.
RAFA RACHEWSKY: As the air is
coming out,
these two are joining together.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, now it's
really fusing
into one.
RAFA RACHEWSKY: Exactly.
JEFFREY BROWN: The result, a
test panel of
the tomb of Seti I, representing
less than
1 percent of what will be a
full-scale replica,
to eventually go on display next
to the original
in Luxor.
And why build a replica of the
tomb?
Because, says Adam Lowe, mass
tourism, our
own need to see the original in
a place never
designed for our biological
presence, has
its consequences.
ADAM LOWE: But what we're really
asking the
visitors to do is to enter into
a new contract
for preserving things for the
future, because
by going to see something that
was designed
to last for eternity, but never
to be visited,
you're contributing to its
destruction.
JEFFREY BROWN: This is expensive
work, developing
new tools and techniques to take
on whatever
challenges the world of
conservation throws
at it.
To finance it, Factum builds
custom pieces
for contemporary artists, like
this piece
for Saudi Arabian artist
Abdulnasser Gharem,
which combines the dome of a
mosque with a
soldier's helmet, and will be
installed at
the Los Angeles County Museum of
Art.
Factum is full of wonders, not
the least of
which was getting into a
contraption built
here called a Veronica scanner,
12 cameras
taking 96 high-resolution photos
of all angles
of my head in four seconds.
After an hour-and-a-half of 3-D
printing,
my very own small bust.
Oh, my goodness.
As technology advances and laser
scans are
increasingly replaced by this
kind of photogrammetry,
it's not hard to imagine a world
in which
anyone can photograph an object
and render
their own model in 3-D.
ADAM LOWE: But I can imagine
many things,
so I can imagine I can take a
photograph,
as we're doing, and I could
recreate something
from a photograph.
I can imagine other people might
do it for
less noble reasons or for
straightforward
commercial reasons, but that's
not a reason
for not doing it.
The recording critical, because
unless you
record it, you don't know how
it's changing,
you don't know what people's
presence is going
to it, you don't know the
effects of time
on the surface.
JEFFREY BROWN: While Adam Lowe
is most focused
now on pushing conservation
techniques, he's
also challenging how we think
about copies
and their relationship to
originals, the very
idea of originality.
The classical sculptures we
know, he points
out, are almost all copies of an
original.
And all those masterpiece
paintings we love?
ADAM LOWE: You go to the
National Gallery
in London, you go to the
in Washington, and every single
one of those
paintings has a complex history.
It's probably restored once or
twice.
It's probably had more than that
by certain
dubious dealers who've tarted it
up to sell
it.
So, there's a whole history of
what happens
on a painting that's constantly
changing.
JEFFREY BROWN: There's no
original when it
comes to a work of art, you're
suggesting.
ADAM LOWE: No, I'm suggesting
there is seldom
a very clear notion of
conception.
The way we see and understand
cultural heritage
changes over time.
It always has, and it always
will.
And the way we value it, the way
we look at
it, the way we appreciate it,
the way we display
it, the way we collect it, all
of these things
are constantly subject to
change.
JEFFREY BROWN: A change at
Factum Arte's workshop
happening before our eyes.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Jeffrey Brown
in Madrid, Spain.
JUDY WOODRUFF: One of the core
tenets of the
American dream is the belief
that any individual,
regardless of their background,
can make it
big.
Millionaire tech entrepreneur
Jason Ford has
done just that, but he believes
that he and
other successful people get a
lot of help
they don't often acknowledge.
He explains in tonight's edition
of In My
Humble Opinion.
JASON FORD, Entrepreneur:
Everyone loves a
good success story.
It's the American dream, working
your way
up from nothing, armed only with
your wits
and a strong work ethic.
And for those who make it, it
feels great
to think you got there all on
your own.
I should know: I'm a
millionaire, the first
in my family, one of those tech
entrepreneurs
who built a software business
and sold it
for a fortune.
I didn't inherit my wealth.
I created it.
But look a little deeper, and it
turns out
that version of my success story
is a lie.
Yes, my family background is
rather humble.
Both of my parents were
teachers.
I grew up in hand-me-down
clothes from our
neighbors.
But, before I was born, my
parents got help
from their parents to buy a
house in a safe
neighborhood with good schools.
When my grandmother passed, she
left each
of her grandkids some money, not
a fortune,
but enough that I made it
through college
without school debt.
My wife's nana was a school
teacher as well.
She and her husband saved their
humble income
and bought land decades ago.
And when I started my business,
she believed
in me enough to sell her land
and invest the
money in my start-up.
So, we can blow up the myth that
I'm a self-made
success.
Sure, I had something to do with
it, but I
also had some serious help.
Now, one way to interpret this
story is that
the generations before me worked
hard to provide
the best possible future for
their kids and
grandkids.
And that interpretation is true,
but it leaves
out some harsh realities rooted
in history.
You see, if my ancestors had not
been white,
it is almost certain that I
wouldn't be where
I am today.
My grandfather would have found
it nearly
impossible to climb to the top
of the corporate
ladder like he did.
This was the mid-'70s, when
almost every executive
in a role like his was a white
man.
As a result, my parents likely
wouldn't have
bought the House They did, with
the good schools
that prepared me for college.
And two generations ago, lending
discrimination
would have made it similarly
impossible for
nana to buy that land that ended
up funding
my business.
Just as not everyone is
qualified to be an
astronaut, it takes a special
kind of person
to be an entrepreneur.
You need discipline,
intelligence, extreme
dedication.
But the best astronaut in the
world can't
fly to the moon unless someone
gives them
the rocket.
It's time for more entrepreneurs
like me to
stop telling stories about how
they climbed
their way to the top, to stop
taking credit
for flying to the moon all by
themselves,
as if the entire support
structure they were
born into had nothing to do with
it.
And it's time for all of us to
find more ways
to empower the world's
highest-potential entrepreneurs
with their own rockets, so they
can show us
the stars.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Something to
think about.
And Robert Costa is getting
ready for "Washington
Week" later this evening.
Robert, what's on tap?
ROBERT COSTA: Well, with 100
days in the rear-view
mirror, President Trump admits
he thought
being president would be easier.
We will take a closer look at
the steady drip
of investigations, unpredictable
global threats,
and the accomplishments that
have shaped the
president's early days -- Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we will be
watching.
And that is the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you, and good night.